### Vertical Partition
- vertical partition, on the other hand, is you splitting literally vertically from top to bottom and what you do is you essentially you split columns within entire chunk of rows into a complete different partition. This is useful for like, let's say you have a large column that is a blob and you barely query that blob document, right? You don't want that blob token to take from your precious SSD space or the fast access right that you have.  So we're going to vertically partition it, put it in another table space, put it in its own table with its all documents, and then attach it to your master table. But if you query for that, the database knows, Oh, this particular column is in another table So I have to jump into that particular table to pull it. However, my beautiful fast access columns are in a fast access in a proper table space in a proper SSD drive. And they are compact, they are not as large. So I just saved a lot of space in my desk. I just saved also a lot of access speed too. So vertical partition.

### Horizontal Partition
- Horizontal partitioning where we split the huge table in to multiple tables based on dates or region or number of rows as we saw in previous example 1 to 200k stored in one table and 200001 to 400k was stored in another table


### Partitioning Types
- By Range eg., dates by logdate or customerid from to)
- By List  discrete values (eg., eg., states CA, AL, etc ) or zip codes
- By Hash, hash functions (consistent hashing)

### Horizontal partitioning vs Sharding
- HP splits big table intp multiple tables in the same database, client is agnostic
- sharding splits big table into multiple table across multiple database servers
- HP table name changes (or schema)
- Sharding everything is the same but server changes (client is aware when sharding happens)
