### TCP? UDP? Both!!
>- As we know, any client-server communication will usually happen over HTTP or
HTTPS channels, In case the communication is bidirectional we will use web socket
protocols. In these cases usually, the connection is formed after a three-way TCP
handshake i.e. client sends a connection request to the server, the server responds
with an acknowledgment, the client responds back with an acknowledgment of the
acknowledgment and a connection is formed. This 3-step process is known as a
three-way TCP handshake.
>- Now that the connection is established, how does the data transfer happen? A point
to remember here is that TCP is a lossless protocol. That means the data packets
cannot go missing. TCP ensures this by receiving an acknowledgment from the
receiver for every data packet it receives. Until the sender receives the
acknowledgment for a data packet it will keep sending the data packet again and
again
>- Another thing TCP does is confession control i.e. every time the network gets choked
due to high traffic, it will delay sending some data packets so as to not overwhelm
the network. So including the time taken for a handshake, acknowledgments from
the server, resending of the same packets, and delay introduced because of
congestion control, there is a lot of overhead involved to maintain data accuracy
which is not even a priority for us.
15
>- This means we need to look at alternatives for TCP which involve less overhead. Here
we will use something called UDP which is another Transport Layer protocol but it is
different from TCP in that it is a lossy protocol.
Unlike TCP, in UDP there is no requirement to form a connection. As long as the
devices are aware of each other’s public IP address, they can talk via peer to peer
connection. Also, as mentioned above, UDP is a lossy protocol, which means there is
no concept of acknowledgment in UDP. If the sender sends packets P1, P2, P3, and
P4 but the receiver only receives packets P1, P3, and P4, the sender won’t bother
sending P2 again i.e. there might be some data loss.
>- So using UDP means less congestion since extra traffic is avoided and one packet is
sent only once, less data transfer since we can avoid all those acknowledgments and
lesser header size. So though the data reaching the receiver might not be perfect, it
will reach a lot faster.
>- But for our system using just UDP will not be enough. We will be using a combination
of TCP and UDP. All the API calls, all communication between components, etc will
happen over TCP but all video transfer will happen over UDP.
